>> Kyle: So let's look at those four
different ways to invoke a function.
The first of them we'll look
at is called implicit binding.
You'll notice I have a workshop object
with a method on it that is this aware.
That should look familiar to
you because I called that
the name space pattern in
another unit of our discussion.
We're revisiting that name
space pattern here and
we're gonna ask how does the this key
word behave in that namespace pattern?
When I get the ask question invoked,
how does it figure out what
the this keyword should point at?
And the answer is because
of the call site.
Because of the call site, the this keyword
is gonna end up pointing at the object
that is used to invoke it, which in this
case on line 8 is the workshop object.
workshop.ask says invoke ask with
the this keyword pointing at workshop.
That's what the implicit
binding rule says.
And by the way, that should be intuitive
to you because that's exactly how
the this binding works in other languages.
So this particular rule is the most
common and the most intuitive
because it decides the method based upon
what function you call it from, I mean,
what object you call it from.
But it's only one of the four ways, and
that's where the extra
confusion can come in.
>> Kyle: By the way, the idea of having
implicit binding is useful because
this is how we share behavior
among different contexts.
Here I am defining just one ask function,
but
I'm sharing the ask function
across two different objects.
workshop1 and
workshop2, two separate objects with
two separate pieces of data in them.
But because on line 7 and line 12 I have
a reference to the ask function on it.
When I use that reference to invoke
the ask function, the implicit
binding rule says invoke that one function
in a different context each time.
So we don't have two ask functions there,
just one, but
it's invoked in two different contexts.
And I could do that not just 2 times,
but I could do it 5 times,
or 1,000 times, or 1 million times.
One function used in lots
of different contexts.
>> Kyle: If you think back to how we
described the idea of lexical scope,
the idea of lexical scope is a very fixed,
predictable thing.
It's defined at author time, and nothing
about the run time can ever change that.
And here we have something
which is not fixed and
predictable, it's entirely dynamic,
it's entirely determined at run time.
And the trade off here is not accidental,
the trade off here is very intentional,
that what we really
are getting is we're getting
the choice between predictable and
flexible.
Here I benefit from the flexibility
of being able to share one function
across different contexts.
But there are times when that
flexibility is a downside and
what I would prefer is
to have predictability.
It's not that one is right and
the other's wrong,
it's just that these are different
tools and they have different benefits.
Here we're seeing the flexibility
benefit of the this keyword.
>> Kyle: There's another
way to invoke functions,
we saw this just a couple of slides ago,
the .call method.
The .call method along with it's cousin,
.dot apply method,
both of them take,
as their first argument, a this keyword.
So on line 13, when we say .call and
we pass in workshop1,
it is saying invoke the ask function
with the this context of workshop1.
It's very similar to the previous slide,
we are still sharing that function,
but now we're doing so
explicitly rather than implicitly.
We're saying wherever
this function comes from,
invoke it in a particular context
which I'm going to specify.
>> Kyle: So we can use .call and
.apply to explicitly tell JavaScript
which context to invoke it in.
Now, we're gonna talk about
a variation of explicit binding,
this is the second of the rules
that we're looking at.
But this isn't a separate rule,
but kind of a sub-rule or
a sub-part of this rule,
which is an extremely common scenario or
phenomenon referred to as
losing your this binding.
If you've ever worked with
a function that you pass around, and
all of a sudden,
it used to have a this binding and
now it doesn't have a this binding,
you know what I'm talking about.
It's very frustrating when you think of
a this keyword as being predictable and
then you find out oops, actually,
it's not predictable, it's flexible.
So variation of explicit
binding is called hard binding.
Looking at line 8,
if I passed in workshop.ask, that method
is on the workshop object, but
that line 8 is not the call site.
You have to imagine in your head,
what would the call site look like for
the function whenever that timer
ran ten milliseconds from now?
And that call site would look like cb[],
or something like that.
It's not going to look like workshop.ask,
and because it doesn't look like that,
it's not going to invoke
ask in a workshop context.
Which is we've lost our this binding,
we end up getting undefined.
Actually just as side note,
technically, the set timeout utility
is defined by HTML, it's not evoking
it just with the default call,
it actually explicitly invokes it with
a .call in the context of global.
So it would actually invoke workshop.ask
by saying cb.call window, essentially.
Invoking it in the global object context,
yes?
>> Speaker 2: Would this be unnecessary
if ask were to find us an arrow function?
>> Kyle: Ask here as an arrow function
would not solve the problem, but
we are gonna talk about arrow functions in
just a moment, so we'll come back that.
So line 8,
we're losing our this binding and
it's actually getting rebound to something
else, in this case the global object.
That's not what we want.
So a very common solution to this is
line 11, passing a hard bound function.
If we pass in a hard bound
function using the .bind method,
it will take away that
whole flexibility thing and
force it to only use the this
that we've specified on line 11.
It says evoke this function, and
no matter how you invoke it,
always use workshop as it's this context.
In other words the .bind method,
it doesn't invoke the function,
it produces a new function which is bound
to a particular specific this context.
So you see a trade-off here, right?
You see the predictable, flexible
this binding, but then you see some
scenarios where, [SOUND] it's kind
of frustrating that it's flexible.
And what I'd really like is for
it to be super predictable.
There's a tension here.
It's not to say that one is right and
the other is wrong.
But if you were to go to all the trouble
to define a bunch of functions on some
namespace object, and
have this dot in front of every property
reference and every method access.
And then all of your function
calls use the .bind,
you would be cutting
yourself off at the knees.
Because the whole purpose of this system,
the whole reason that you pay the tax of
putting this dot in front of
everything is to get the dynamicism.
And then you're going and
taking that whole dynamic system and
locking it down so
that it's completely predictable.
At that point, wouldn't you be better
served simply writing a module
that uses closure and has a fixed,
predictable behavior?
So how do we deal with this tension?
We like using the this keyword,
it can be useful to us, but
there are times when we need
it to not be so flexible.
I can't solve that tension for you, but
I can just give you a sort
of heuristic that I use.
If I go to the trouble to write
a this aware set of code, and
then most of my core sites
are using the flexible dynamism,
and every once in a while I have to
do something like a hard binding.
Then I'm getting a lot of
benefits out of that system,
seems like a reasonable trade-off.
On the other hand, if I go to all the
trouble to write a this aware system and
then everyone or most of my calls sites
have to use not bind, that's a clue to me.
I'm doing this the hard way.
I should switch back and
use the predictable lexical closure.
In other words, there's a better tool use,
there's a better way to use the tool.
Use what it's good at.
If we want flexible dynamism, use a this
keyword, if we want predictability,
use closures, use lexical scope.
>> Kyle: So just keep that in mind
when you're using the .bind method.
Not that it is bad, not that it is evil,
not that it is an anti-pattern.
But if you find that happening
more often than not,
you're probably doing things the hard way.